---
layout: post
title:      "My Journey So Far"
date:       2019-08-30 21:58:53 +0000
permalink:  my_journey_so_far
---


‘FUCK.’ I whispered to myself as I walked into the bathroom on the third floor of a small office building in Hoboken. The realization of just how badly I had done on the technical interview I just finished was setting in fast. The excuses that bubbled into my consciousness were flimsy at best. ‘How can they expect me to know that off the top of my head?! I only graduated my bootcamp a few weeks ago! I’ve only built one site with React so far for crying out loud!’ I knew I had no one to blame but myself, but bombing interviews wasn’t getting easier with practice. I was beginning to question if changing careers and becoming a software developer was really a possibility for me. Who wants to hire a 36 year old with no professional programming experience who spent the last decade and a half counting trees and walking through swamps? So far the answer was nobody and I was getting to the point where my self-doubt was almost out weighing my post-graduate optimism. I felt lost and that I may have taken on a challenge that I couldn’t rise to. 

Things were a lot easier back in the day. In the early-mid 90’s I had taken a handful of computer courses over the summer. I could build websites back then. HTML tags were easy enough to get the hang of. My dad had asked me for help building a simple website for the community college he worked at. They needed a couple pages for their sports programs and I was a lot cheaper than most options they had available that summer. It wasn’t pretty, but it worked. My dad was proud of me, and I had made a little money in my pockets. 

I had always had an obsession with computers. When my family used to visit my grandfather I would spend 90% of the visit on his Commodore 64 playing all sorts of computer games. How he had collected such a library I’ll never know. In high school I took whatever computer courses I could, including a C++ course at Colgate University. I wasn’t a savant or anything, but coding made a lot of sense to me. The structure and logic came naturally to me. Being able to write code that makes a computer do something is pretty addicting. I found it to be an incredibly rewarding experience. 

So rewarding that I applied early decision to Boston University’s electrical engineering program. I wanted to build robots, but three semesters of theoretical calculus with professors that could barely speak english and a dozen engineering courses where we didn’t build a damn thing, had my spirits crushed. The only class I liked was my computer science course. Nothing else spoke to my passions, it was just busy work that was in the way of what I really wanted to do. But if that was what engineering was really like, I didn’t want anything to do with it. So a year and a half later I quit and moved back home with no plans and no idea what to do next. 

I got a job on the night shift at an electric switch factory for the next semester to save up some money before I went back to school. You know the trigger mechanism on power drills? I made 1,600 of those every night, 11:30pm to 7:30am. My dad sort of pushed me into the job hoping to motivate me to go back to school. **It was incredibly successful**. I never questioned going back to college, I just didn’t know what I should go back to school for. One weekend my dad suggested that I look into some environmental programs, citing my obsession with the outdoors and wildlife. I didn’t really know what a career with the environment would look like. I also didn’t think too much about it. It just kind of made sense. So next stop Unity College, Maine. 

With a bachelor's degree in wildlife conservation (yes that’s a real degree) and a minor in forestry I moved to New York City; because obviously that’s where you go to find wildlife and forestry jobs. I had managed to find a job conducting bird surveys near JFK airport a week after graduating college. It was a great chance to make good money right out of school, get some decent field experience, and be able to move in with my girlfriend at the time. After a year in the field the company I was working for brought me into the office full time. 

Thirteen years, nine apartments, and half a dozen girlfriends later I came to the conclusion that **more** change was needed. My career was dead-ending into one of two possible outcomes. Either I was going to become a “manager,” giving up all of the fun parts of my job and basically becoming a sale’s person for the firm; or I was going to have to commit fully to the fieldwork life. Being a manager wasn’t something I wanted. All the managers I know are incredibly stressed people that might not hate their job openly, but their job certainly seems to hate them. Fieldwork seemed like the more appealing option at first. However upon reflecting over the past 13 years of dealing with poison ivy, lyme disease, mosquitos, sun stroke, frostbite, nuclear waste (no joke), and feral dogs chasing me to my truck I decided fieldwork wasn’t a long term solution either.

It was around this time that a friend of mine planted seed to change careers in my head. He is a software developer and was helping me work on a silly website project after work in his spare time. ‘Honestly, you’re better than some people I work with that have been doing this for ten years.’ I found it hard to believe but it was hard not to daydream about it. I had been touching code in some recreational capacity since I was twelve after all. I knew the basics, maybe I really could make that happen? But how in the world would any recruiter in their right mind pick my resume out of a pile to interview? They wouldn’t, so I decided the least I could do was to enroll in a bootcamp. Hopefully that would give me some credibility and get my foot in the door.

I left that bathroom in Hoboken feeling wholly defeated. It took a few days of self-pity before I was able to dust myself off and do what I do best. Pick myself up, figure out what went wrong, and learn from it. I’m working through a handful of algorithm classes online, practicing my React, and building my portfolio site. It’s only been a week and a half since my last interview but I feel like the change is significant. I know I don’t have all the answers for these technical interviews. I don’t think I ever will. But my drive to learn and the passion to build are a part of the fabric of my being. Someday I’m going to meet the people that see that. Until then there is always more to learn. 

